Is it better for you that you're kind of,
is it better to be sad about it somehow?
Is it better to be regretful or just ignore the fact altogether?
Or why is it not okay. That I'm happy about what I eat.
I know the story of it really well.
Like I understand the history of wildlife in this country.
I don't want to say better than anybody, but sure. Better than most. Um,
I know where we've been.
I have a good sense of where we're going in terms of American wildlife,
what the challenges are for American wildlife, right?
I'm involved in this stuff on a daily basis.
I can know all that and I can see my place in it. Right.
I can see what my actions are and whether my actions are
helpful or hurtful for something that I care a great deal about.
And if I can know that well and get a
deer, a bear or whatever,
and have it be food and find that I'm like really happy to be involved in that
that somehow is off putting to people, but it's okay to be that it's,
I'm blind to it.
I have this nagging sense of guilt about it that I haven't reckoned with.
I don't really know about it. You know? And that's like the,
that's like an acceptable position for some people to have.
It's really hard for me with people that are, that,
that are contributing to animal death, who,
who want to condemn those who are more willing to, or for whatever reason,
willing to excited about taking part in the process themselves.
I got to find a way to, I got to find a way to, to, to engage with it though.
And I need to get a better understanding of it because it's the, the, the,
the debate isn't going away.
I can't keep brushing it off as so ridiculous that it doesn't warrant my time
because clearly it does warrant my time to understand that perspective.
I just haven't had anybody really give to me in a good way.
I have people say like, oh, but they were raised to be eaten.
That's a foolish perspective.
That's that to me is way, way worse. It's a life condemned.
I'd probably rather talk to Rick Google. Uh, Glenn Greenwald is a vegan,
probably.
Rare to talk to someone like Ricky Jarvis about it. Cause I,
I assume that he's articulate about.
It. Yeah. He's articulate. I don't think his position is a nuanced. I don't,
I don't. I think there's some willful ignorance.
That's a part of people that eat meat, but condemn hunting, uh, willful.
And the fact that, like I said,
they know that they're going to get a certain reaction out of people when they
tweet about it on social media. One thing,
if you're talking about someone who's out there shooting things and not eating
it. Okay, I get it. I'm with you. If, if some guy's shooting an elephant,
cause he wants his tusks, I'm on your side. I get it. But if,
if someone chooses to hunt, you know, and an animal fill in the blank,
that might be a goat, might be weird to you that they're eating this thing,
but they're shooting this. It's an invasive species.
It's actually very delicious. It's very edible prized for its meat.
By some communities. You don't make any sense.
You you're doing this because you know that other people are ignorant about it
as well.
And either you're ignorant because you've never bothered to look into it or
you've bothered to look into it. And you were ignoring the nuance.
Yeah. In the case of the goat thing, there's, this is a little added thing.
There's an added element that our government on the federal level is
involved.
There's a lot of state wildlife management agencies that are involved in trying
to do a wild goat eradication projects
on islands. Yes.
This is something that's ongoing all the time in Hawaii and many other places
where we're we're, we're like out helicopter gunning. Yeah.
Helicopter gunning for invasive species.
Explain to people how those goats got there in the first place.
Cause this is also very weird.
Um, a variety of ways, but a lot of things were a lot of island species.
This is one way it happens where invasive on islands would be
introduced by seafarers whalers,
who would, uh,
want to establish food resources along transoceanic
routes so that you could put something there and come back and get it later.
Early way, like, like whalers used to come out of the, the,
the American Northeast, like all those famous whaling villages in,
in new England, you know, they would go down and stop in and like,
you know, stop in and the Galapagos, whatever,
and gather up tortoises that they could flip over in the whole of a boat.
And the tourists stay alive for months on its back.
And you'd have like a fresh meat resource.
And as people came to understand scurvy and realizing that fresh meat,
um,
gives you enough vitamin C to avoid scurvy that you can
get from dried meat. Cause you know,
the way the vitamin C behaves through the cooking and drying process,
but like fresh meat,
you can keep from having scurvy meat became even more important then,
but people would come in and you'd like, cut some sheet blues, cut some goats,
loose on an island and know that they're gonna breed and build up a big
population. And that can be like a place you stop in and get food. Um,
and other things get introduced in other ways. And of course, animals move,
you know? So you have one island that has close proximity to another island.
They can swim across the bump over and then it destroys native vegetation.
They trample birds nest.
And so you have in many cases where introductions of
non-natives particularly the non-native grazing animals,
non-native predators will wind up causing like a lot of extinctions of endemic
species on islands and creates all kinds of problems.
That's exactly what we're talking about with this, go in that picture.
So this is an animal that must be killed if you want healthy wildlife on
that island, the native wildlife and the native fauna, the flora,
all this stuff that lives there, all this stuff that's supposed to be there.
You got to kill the goats. Otherwise they'll.
Eat everything. I think people look, people look and they, they, they, they,
they, they look and they're like, I don't buy that.
That was the motivation of that person.
What I care about is motivations of individuals. I think you're right,
because when California got rid of mountain lion hunting,
they're still killing several hundred mountain lions here a year.
People are comfortable with like the total lion kill. Didn't change.
Much people are comfortable with a state agent or someone.
Being paid to.
Go out and kill lines.
They're not comfortable with someone paying who wants to go do it.
I don't think they realize,
I don't think they realize that state agencies are killing as many mountain
lions in California as they are. I don't think people understand that.
I think people do understand if something gets put on the ballot, you know,
would you like to re-introduce mountain lion hunting, people would go crazy.
Like, why would you do that? Mountain lions are beautiful. They're exciting.
I want to see them. But these are people in Santa Monica.
You know what I'm saying? They're not people that are living, you know,
an hour outside of Bakersfield.
And they got 16 mountain lions in their backyard and a year that's,
this is different kind of world. You know,
if they're in the attached P mountains out there and you see mountain lions all
the time, they have a lot of mountain lines. Yeah. And there's an issue. And.
There's a problem too, that I view this is coming from,
there's a problem. I think a lot of people have a very hard time empathizing
with people who might be negatively impacted
by wildlife as well in the, in the question of the lion issue. Right.
Where it's kinda like this idea, like, well, you better suck it up, right? Yeah.
So if you're a rancher and you're running cattle in the area where you're losing
a lot of cattle, the wolves and Grizzlies, um,
people will look and be like, you better suck it up, buddy. Like,
I can't really picture your problem, but your complaints are not legitimate.
Well, they can't, if someone were to cut a,
if someone were to cut a grizzly loose and golden gate, state park. Right.
I don't know. Um,
I think that people would have w would come to have a different perspective
on that to put it mildly. Yeah.
But it winds up being that you look and people are,
they don't really want to hear about other people's problems if it doesn't,
if it doesn't jive with their understanding of what problems are.
And that is area where the issue around grizzly bears and the delisting. So,
you know, they were delisted,
they were removed from endangered species act protection temporarily, um,
because they had met all recovery goals. So when we look,
what was the recovered population look like? Um,
they mapped out what it would look like.
And we've exceeded that for many years now. And they were de listed, but then,
uh, Wyoming and Idaho moved to have a very limited hunt on them. Um,
and then they were a federal judge blocked the D listing and they went back and
listing.
It was the federal judges motivation.
Well, you want to hope that, uh,
that they didn't have one. You wanted,
you want to think that they were just looking at, you know, the details of it.
But I think there's a suspicion that that person went into that knowing
sure what they were going to do, you know? Uh, but,
but you don't really know. I mean,
th th a lot of these arguments around they come down to like technicalities,
right? No, one's arguing that the population's recovering.
Well,
there's also the argument that the judge is probably trying to protect his own
reputation because the amount of blow back that a judge would receive for
allowing a hunt to go through is vastly different than blocking a hunt,
blocking a hunt. You're not going to get that much, blow back.
You'll get a few people that are upset,
but it hadn't been an established resource.
It's not like you're taking something away from people,
but if he allowed it for the wildlife, people would go bananas.
On this guy. They, they tend to like, and I don't even call them. And like,
I don't call them environmentalist.
Like the people who Sue to block the delisting of recovered species,
uh, they'll masquerade is, you know, ecologically conscious environmentalist,
but they're just people who it's, it's untenable to them. You know,
they can't that they're never going to accept the idea that,
that you're going to have human exploitation of this resource, right.
That they masquerade as their, they have an environmental motivation,
but it's not, it's like it's an animal rights motivation. Um,
there's a very, there's a,
they have a sensitive ear in a certain federal court, you know, a Missoula.
And so you'll see a lot of these cases around wolves and Grizzlies they'll get
that. They'll want that done through that court.
They know that they're probably gonna have a friendly take on it.
I think it was a real,
it was watching that happen and that's had been happening recently.
I think it was a real, a real travesty because, um,
there's a couple of things that happen like culturally in areas where you'll,
you create a lot of tension with people where there's people that are,
are living amongst these things.
And they're looking for some level of some level of relief and they want to see
it go to state management. And they might want to see the state exercise,
some control over where certain populations of large predators are spreading
into. And when it winds up being that their, like their voices are not heard,
you know,
and they feel that people from far away are really heavily influencing decisions
that affect them on a daily basis.
It winds up creating like a lot of animosity toward the species to where like,
think about what happened with the spotted owl, right? The spotted owl,
no one can see it, no one perceives the spotted owl as owl anymore.
The spotted owls become like a symbol of federal overreach.
And you'll find that like, you know, wolves for awhile,
they become like a symbol of a dispute and people stop liking the
animals much. And it becomes like this like contentious creature.
And I think that we're going to head that way. If we keep,
if we keep stepping in,
on wildlife issues with the mentality that we've been approaching,
the Wolf and grizzly issue in the Northern great lakes, the Northern Rockies,
soon to be in the greater Yellowstone ecosystem. Now I think you're.
Dealing with local and then you're dealing with national, right?
So the local people are going to have an issue with it because they're going to
be impacted by it. It's going to be directly impacting their life.
Dogs are going to be killed while, you know,
w they're they're going to take domestic cattle and all sorts of different
things. You're gonna have real issues with, uh,
the people that like to go elk hunting, the populations have diminished rapidly,
but the rest of the country doesn't give a, no people in San Francisco,
they don't give a about it. People in Chicago aren't impacted by it. If, if,
especially if they don't have anyone in their family that hunts or anyone that
has a background in hunting, and they don't have a background in it themselves,
they don't care.
No people really don't. And I pointed out all the time, but, um,
that I care about the availability and been an abundance
of deer elk, moose, caribou, right?
Like I care about the resource.
There's a lot of people who rely on the resource, use the resource,
their major economic drivers. Um, I'm definitely I'm anything, but I'm like,
I regard myself as a pro Wolf person, I regard myself as a pro grizzly person.
I cherish every interaction I have with those animals. I.
Love to be around in them a resource.
I don't have a problem with calling resources to people,
but people do have a problem with calling a resource. And, um, and, and yeah,
I'm, I'm like pro I'd like to in suitable habitat, I like to see them present.
I also like to see that I also like to see them manage in the way
that allows for abundant wild game resources. Yeah.
What's going on house passed the bill to drop legal protections for gray Wolf.
As passed today. Whoa. Or, yeah, will this interesting was two hours ago.
So.
Well, roll down a little bit. Okay.
Republican controlled house passed a bill on Friday to drop legal protections at
gray wolves across the lower 48 states reopening a lengthy battle over the
predator species long despised by farmers and ranchers wolves were shot trap
poisoned out of existence in most of the U S in the mid 20th century,
by the mid 20th century,
since securing protection in the 1970s wolves have bounced back. Well,
that's not really exactly what happened. Great lakes of Michigan, Minnesota,
and Wisconsin as well in the Northern Rockies and Pacific Northwest.
That's sort of, but they're not talking about the reintroduction.
The reintroduction is the big issue, right? Well,
and that's what people have great issue with. Well.
The other, the reintroduction is only in one area, the, the great lake,
the Northern great lakes, uh, that was not a re-introduction. There was,
you know,
a sizeable population movements of wolves coming down from Canada and coming
back in the Northern CA the court Northern continental divide ecosystem,
not a re-introduction you had a famous yellow. Yeah, well, yeah.
The famous case of the famous reintroduction in Yellowstone national park,
highly viewed.
Now it's widely viewed now that if you wouldn't have done that you would have
had, had you not done that re-introduction you'd have had a natural flow anyway,
and natural flow from Canada, you would have got it. You would have,
you would have, eventually you would have eventually have gotten there anyway.
Interesting. But would they have gotten to the exact same levels?
No, no. At this particular point right now, and I think that'd be like,
laughable the Aquacel they'd be there now, but I think, but, but people,
there's no realization that you would have that without the reintroduction you
would have through natural movement have eventually gotten, you know, do.
You to think that that's, uh, that,
that supports the idea of the re-introduction?
Do you think the readopt introduction was well thought out?
I don't want it, you know,
I'm not going to debate the merits of the reintroduction. Like I said, um,
my perspective on it.
It should be in a place where it supports them.
Yeah. My perspective on it is I, I don't, uh,
the idea of extinction and regional extirpation sickens me.
I do not believe in, um,
I do not believe that like, as a people, as a culture,
we can justify or afford to remove species of
wildlife from the landscape, um,
native species of wildlife from the landscape. Uh, like I said,
the idea is sickens me. I like to, uh, you know, I like to have, um,
all native wildlife present on the landscape, so
I don't oppose it.
What I oppose is the thing that's happened now is
getting where we have populations that we agree, like,
what will recovery look like? And at what point, when, what,
how will we manage all the different viewpoints that are coming in all the
different,
like interests of all these varied stakeholders and at what point where we get
in there and manipulate the situation that we're creating, um,
I just would move that in a different direction where I think that w that
recovered species, right, in this case,
when we're talking about wolves and Grizzlies,
I think that you should have that if you can do it in a sustainable way that
doesn't have long-term deleterious impacts on the population,
do they should be managed as a renewable resource.
See, this is where people are going to have issues. Don't have anything,
just even the term,
you manage them as a renewable resource. You mean,
shoot them and kill them and use their fur.
Sure. I think that, I think that recovered species,
that I think that if you put something on the endangered species act and it goes
under federal protection, um,
and then when it re reaches recovery and the U S fish and wildlife service says
it's recovered, it's time to hand it back to state management.
If a state then decides that they're going to do some limited harvest,
particularly, let's say they're,
even if they're focusing on areas where there's like very high prevalence of
human animal conflict, and the state decides to do that in some like, minor way,
as a way to service the needs of certain segments of their population that wants
something to happen.
I don't think that then some like an activist judge or,
or environmental groups or animal rights groups should come in and be like,
well, nevermind,
we're going to pretend that they're not recovered now because we want to prevent
the state from doing something that we think is unsavory.
Well,
the thought behind the people that support blocking the hunt is that
if you leave these animals alone, naturally, they're going to find balance.
And that the wolves will kill the elk until there's not enough elk for them to
sustain their populations.
And the numbers of their offspring will dwindle and they'll get to some sort of
a sustainable level. Yeah.
But we already, I mean, we live in a LA,
we live in a heavily manipulated kind of land kind of manmade environment.
Now, um, the idea that things are gonna,
that we would just let things run their course and watch what happens.
Isn't going to happen. You're still gonna have, um,
a lot of Grizzlies every year are still going to get in trouble.
They're still going to get killed. You're still going to have mortality.
You know, you're, you're going to have tons of grizzy mortality in tough areas.
Um, but they're going to kill these. Aren't acting in packs. That's all,
but they killed them, but they kill cattle and they come up,
they brought up against humans. It's just like, it's a Neville.
You're going to have some that you're not going to let it run. As a,
as a person, as a hunter. I also don't have a problem with,
and actually support as a hunter that we would, you know,
while allowing wolves to be present on the landscape that we would mitigate
their impact on big game. I don't mind saying,
I don't mind just coming out and saying that I like to have high populations of
big game animals that are available to hunters. And also at the same time,
sharing some of that resource there, having the wolves on the ground, doing it,
um, don't want to see them gone. Not anti Wolf, not anti grizzly. It's.
Just one of those where it's it's because a Wolf is so much like a dog
and because there's not a great history of people eating.
I remember you telling me about one mountain man, where his favorite food was.
[inaudible].
Stefansson, who's an Arctic Explorer. What.
A crazy. That guy must've.
Loved. Wolf meat. You ever tried.
It? No, no, no, but you've eaten coyote, eating Kyle. So you've eaten a species.
No, I've.
Never, I've never killed a Wolf. Never killed a grizzly bear. Hm.
Just haven't haven't eaten either of them. I, at one coyote. Yeah.
Didn't ate it. Didn't like it haven't messed with one since.
Yeah. You said that was similar to diver duck too, right? That was Remy.
Remy felt that it tastes like bad diver duck.
I diver ducks and still eat diver ducks. But no, I haven't. No, I haven't. Uh,
haven't done that anymore. And then, um, haven't included any coyote recipes in,
uh, there's no coyote recipes in the wild game cookbook, either.
It might be the ultimate one that people are going to have a problem with it at
the very, that might be where the rubber hits the road. Well, you know.
In some places become a moot point because Idaho, Wyoming,
Montana, um, all have state management of wolves. Yeah.
All of the things that were all these horrible things that were going to happen
when the state's resumed management of wolves didn't materialize.
Right. But those places also have a rich history of hunting.
Yeah. But it was, it was going to be the end of the wolves. Right.
And it hasn't been in the first few years,
in the first few years of the wool seasons you actually had,
you actually saw the populations go up. Well, it's so hard to hunt them. Right?
Well, they, it winds up being the, uh,
putting that with that little bit of hunting pressure on them really changed
there. It really changed their movements and changed the way they perceive human
threats and they adjust to it pretty quickly. Um, but it hasn't led to,
you know,
I think a lot of people look in those cases where it was pretty effective,
you know, it was very effective to bring in,
to bring in limited regulated hunting,
had the desired effect on how walls are using landscape and,
and ways in which they were interacting and involved and avoiding humans.
I have no doubt too. I have no doubt too. Like it'll,
the situation will probably in the Northern great lakes, they,
they had state management, law, state management,
like it bounces back and forth. You're gonna, you're going to eventually,
let me kind of depends on how the political winds blow,
but you're eventually going to wind up with it there.
And you're not going to see wolves vantage from the landscape. You know,
you does not. If grizzly bears wind up doing it, you're still gonna see,
you're gonna see gradually expanding populations of grizzly bears to fight.
Despite the fact that they're using limited harvest to achieve certain
management objectives is not going to be the end of the world.